An accordion is a portable musical instrument with two keyboards.
One accordion keyboard is used for individual notes, the other for chords.
Accordions produce sound with bellows that blow air through reeds.
An accordionist plays both keyboards while opening and closing the bellows.
An apartment is a self-contained home that is part of a building.
An apartment may have one or more rooms, as well as a kitchen and a bathroom.
Some apartments are for single people, others for families.
The apartment building can have a garage, a laundry facility or extra storage space.
An apple is a fruit that can be green, red or yellow.
Apples have thin skin, a crisp, sweet pulp and seeds inside.
Some very tart apples are used to make cider.
Apples can be eaten raw, roasted or baked in pies.
Arson is the criminal act of burning a building or wildland.
A fire investigation determines if a fire was caused by accident or arson.
Arson can be done to cause damage to others or collect insurance.
The severity of the arson depends on whether people were harmed.
An automobile, or car, is a wheeled vehicle for transporting passengers.
A car can be powered by a gasoline or electric engine.
The driver steers the car on roads, other passengers just sit.
Cars vary in size, number of doors and the type of trunk.
The axe is a tool used to split and cut wood.
The axe usually consists of a head attached to a handle.
Historically, axe heads were made of stone and then metal.
Axes are used by woodcutters and firemen entering buildings.
A banana is a long fruit that grows in bunchs, with a soft edible inside.
A banana when ripe can be yellow, purple or red and have small brown spots.
The greatest producers are tropical countries, such as India or Ecuador.
Unripe bananas and plantains are staple foods and often cooked like potatoes.
A bed is a piece of furniture used as a place to sleep or have sex in.
A bed is made of a mattress and a box spring, plus sheets, pillows and covers.
In water beds the mattress is filled with water, and in air beds it is filled with air.
Another type of bed is the hammock, a fabric sling suspended above the ground.
A bee is a flying insect, with a black and yellow body and six legs.
Bees spread pollen between flowers as they collect nectar to make honey.
Bees are social insects and live together in a colony located in a hive.
Many bees have stingers and can attack if they feel threatened.
A bicycle is a vehicle with two wheels and pedals on a frame.
A bicycle is propelled by the pedalling of a cyclist on the saddle.
The bicycle wheels have rubber tires with an inner tube full of air.
People use bicycles for transportation, recreation and racing.
A blacksmith creates objects by forging iron or steel.
A blacksmith hammers and bends hot iron on an anvil to change its shape.
Blacksmiths wears a thick apron and handle the metal with tongs.
Blacksmiths make objects like weapons, horse shoes or iron furniture.
A blender is a kitchen appliance used to mix ingredients or puree food.
Blenders have a glass or plastic container with a rotating blade in the bottom.
Blenders are used to make milk shakes and fruit smoothies.
Blenders are also used to make cold alcoholic drinks with crushed ice.
A boy is a young male child who has not undergone puberty.
The term boy is used to indicate sex distinctions relative to girls.
Traditionally boys like to play rough games and fight with each other.
An adult male behaving immaturely is often referred to as a boy.
Broccoli is a plant in the cabbage family.
Broccoli has a green flower head and a thick, tough stalk.
Broccoli is high in vitamins, fiber and other nutrients.
Broccoli can be boiled, stir-fried or eaten raw.
A butterfly is a flying insect with four large wings.
The wings of butterflies can be very colorful and patterned.
Metamorphosis is the transformation of a caterpillar into a butterfly.
Some people collect butterflies because of their colorful wings.
A carpenter is an artist or manual laborer who works with wood.
Carpenters build and repair houses, furniture, boats and other objects.
Carpenters use tools such as hammers, saws, pliers and planes.
A luthier is a carpenter that makes and repairs musical instruments.
Cats are small furry animals with four legs and a tail.
Cats like to groom themselves by licking their fur.
Cats can hunt mice or birds, but are often fed by their owners.
The claws of cats are retractable so that they keep sharp.
A chair is a piece of furniture designed for people to sit on.
Chairs consist of a seat raised above floor level, supported by legs.
Chairs can also have back and arm rests, as well as a cushion.
Seats are fixed chairs located in vehicles or in places like cinemas.
A clarinet is a woodwind musical instrument.
A clarinet is a long black tube with a flare at the bottom.
The clarinet player chooses notes by pressing keys and holes.
The clarinet is used both in jazz and classical music.
A cod is a fish that lives in the colder areas of the Atlantic.
Cod flesh is white and mild-tasting, and flakes easily when cooked.
Fresh cod is used for fish and chips, salted cod for elaborate dishes.
Cod has been caught, salted and traded since the time of the Vikings.
Coffee is made from coffee beans, the seeds of the coffee plant.
Coffee is a popular drink in many countries, and usually served hot.
Coffee contains a mild drug called caffeine that keeps people awake.
Coffee is the world's seventh-largest legal agricultural export.
A desert is a natural environment where almost no rain falls.
Hot deserts are usually filled with sand dunes or rocks.
Some animals and plants have adapted to live in deserts.
The biggest hot desert is the Sahara in northern Africa.
A desk is a piece of furniture used for working at, sometimes with a computer.
A desk has a flat surface and can be made of wood, plastic or metal.
A desk may have drawers to store supplies and papers.
A cubicle consists of a desk surrounded by partitions on three sides.
A door is a movable barrier to entrance or exit from an enclosed area.
Most doors have locks to control who gets to pass through them.
Most doors are opened by pushing or pulling a handle after they are unlocked.
Other types of doors can slide or consist of a revolving chamber.
A dress is a piece of clothing that women sometimes wear.
A dress is like a shirt attached to a long, matching skirt.
A dress is usually worn at formal occasions, such as a wedding or a dance.
It can be hard to climb stairs or ride a bike in a dress.
Drunk driving is the act of driving under the effects of alcohol.
Drunk driving of any vehicle is a crime in most of the world.
Drunk driving plays a role in almost half of all vehicle-related deaths.
Drunk drivers are caught by field sobriety and breathing tests.
A drought is a persistent shortage of the water supply caused by lack of rain.
Drought will cause crops and plants to stop growing and die.
Extreme drought will eventually turn areas into desert and cause famine.
Large numbers of people have to migrate away from dust bowls during droughts.
Eagles are large birds of prey that hunt during the day and have very good eyesight.
Eagles have hooked beaks for tearing flesh, strong legs and sharp talons.
Eagles live in eyries and some species eat fish and others small mammals.
The bald eagle has a bright white head and is the national bird of the United States.
Earthquakes shake the ground and can knock down buildings and other structures.
The earthquake shaking can also trigger landslides and volcanic activity.
Most earthquakes are caused by the release of energy in the Earth's crust.
An earthquake at sea can displace the seabed and cause a tsunami.
Elephants are the largest kind of land mammal, weighing several tons.
An elephant has a long nose called a trunk, which can grab things or food.
The elephant has a pair of ivory tusks, for moving objects or digging into trees.
The elephant flaps its large ears to cool the blood in them and its body.
The eye is an organ for sensing light and coding it for the visual cortex.
Most animals have complex eyes which can detect color, motion and texture.
The fovea is the center of the human eye and the most sensitive part of it.
Insects have compound eyes made up of eye units facing in many directions.
A farm is land used to grow plants or raise animals for food.
Farmers are the people who run the farm and decide what to produce.
Farms usually have a house for farmers, a silo and a barn.
A cooperative is a farm where many farmers share the land and equipment.
Primates usually have four fingers and a thumb on each hand.
Fingers are used for grasping, writing, grooming and other activities.
The finger tips are sensitive to temperature, pressure and vibration.
The nail protects the tip of the finger and can be grown or decorated.
A flood is an overflow of an expanse of water that submerges inhabited land.
Flood can be caused by heavy rain or rapid snow melt, as well as earthquakes at sea.
In a flood a river will flow out of its channel or break dams and levees.
During a flood people evacuate and the contaminated water causes diseases.
A floor is a horizontal surface inside a building, used for walking on.
Floors may be made of bare concrete, tile, linoleum or wooden floorboards.
People often put carpets on a floor, for comfort and to dampen noise.
In buildings the floor often has pipes and electrical wiring under it.
Feet are body parts at the end of a legs. 
People use their feet when walking, running or standing straight.
People also use their feet to kick, in both fighting and sports.
Many cultures have rules for behavior related to feet.
A forest is an area with a high density of trees and canopy cover.
The type of forest depends on temperature and rainfall in its location.
A forest ecosystem has various types of trees and animals, as well as ground plants.
Deforestation is the cutting down of forests disregarding regeneration.
A fork is a tool for eating solid foods, with a handle and several tines.
Forks are usually  made of metal, or plastic, if disposable.
Forks are used to lift food to the mouth or to hold food in place while cutting.
Forks are used in Western cultures, and there are special kinds for various foods.
A frying pan is a small pan with sloping sides and a handle.
A frying pan is used to fry, sear and brown food.
The food is cooked on oil covering the bottom of the frying pan.
Frying pans are made of iron or teflon-clad steel.
A girl is a female human who has not yet reached maturity.
At puberty the body of a girl develops into that of a woman.
Girls often like playing with dolls and social games.
Girls sometimes grow long hair and wear dresses and skirts.
A glove is a piece of clothing that covers the hand and fingers.
Gloves to protect against cold are made of wool or lined waterproof material.
Disposable rubber or latex gloves are used to shield hands from germs or chemicals.
A mitten is a kind of glove where the four fingers are covered together.
A hammer is a tool used to deliver an impact to an object.
A hammer is most often used to drive nails into wood.
The claw on the head of the hammer can be used to remove nails.
Hammers vary in the shape of the head and handle length.
A hand grenade is an explosive used as a weapon against people.
Hand grenades are thrown and timed to explode a bit after that.
Grenades can also be fired from rifles or shoulder launchers.
Tear gas grenades are thrown into the middle of a mob to disperse it.
A horse is a large hoofed mammal with four long, muscular legs.
A horse has a tail and a mane on its neck, and is usually gray or brown.
Horses have been used for draft work, travel and entertainment.
A human can ride a horse while it walks, trots or gallops.
People go to hospitals to be healed when they are sick or injured.
Hospitals are staffed by professional physicians, surgeons, and nurses.
Some patients go to hospitals for specialist diagnosis or therapy, leaving the same day.
For some operations or treatments patients have to stay at the hospital for several weeks.
A house is a permanent building or structure for people or families to live in.
A house has a roof and walls to keep out cold and rain, and windows to let light in.
A house can have rooms for purposes like sleeping, cooking or washing.
Most people leave the house to work and come back at night to eat and sleep.
An igloo is a type of shelter made from blocks of snow by Inuit.
Igloos are built in places where snow covers the land most of the time.
Igloos are often built in the shape of a dome, with an entrance tunnel.
Air pockets in snow insulate the igloo space, and body heat warms it.
A knife is a tool with a sharp edge that is used to cut things.
Modern knives consist of a handle and a blade, usually made of metal.
Knives have also been used as weapons and instruments in rituals.
A knife can be used to attack by slashing, stabbing or throwing. 
Lentils are the seeds of a plant of the legume family.
Lentils can be red, green, brown, black or yellow.
Lentils are commonly used in Indian and Mediterranean cuisines.
Lentils are cooked by boiling and are a great source of protein.
Lettuce is a biennial plant often grown in temperate climates as a leaf vegetable.
Lettuce can be eaten cold and raw, in salads and other dishes, or cooked.
Lettuce is considered fairly easy to grow and a suitable crop for beginners.
Most lettuce leaves taste bitter, but some are bred to remove the bitterness.
A library is a place where a collection of books, documents and media is kept.
Librarians work at libraries and are experts at finding and organizing information.
People can go to public libraries and borrow books to take home for several weeks.
Academic libraries support scholarly research and have specialized books.
A log cabin is a small house built from round logs.
Log cabin is a symbol of American frontier life and humble origins.
Log cabins were used as first shelters by european settlers.
Log cabins were built using logs with notch joints at the ends.
A man is a male human adult.
A boy becomes a man after passing through puberty.
Manhood is associated with masculinity and virility.
A man differs from a woman in height, weight, and body structure.
Milk is a white liquid produced by female mammals to feed their young.
Newborn animals must be fed milk before they can eat solid food.
Dairy products such as cheese and butter are made from milk.
Liquid produced from soybeans and coconuts is sometimes called milk.
Mosquitos are thin, small flying insects that emit a high-pitched sound.
Mosquitos have mouthparts for piercing the skin of plants and animals.
Female mosquitos bite people and animals and suck their blood for protein.
Mosquito bites can spread yellow fever, malaria and other parasite diseases.
A mountain is a landform that rises steeply above surrounding land.
Mountains rise higher than hills and sometimes have snow at the top.
A range of mountains forms due to tectonic plate collision.
Mountaineers are people who climb or hike up mountains.
The mouth is the face cavity we put food in when we eat.
The mouth has teeth to chew food and mix it with saliva.
The mouth is also used for kissing and talking.
Speech sounds are controlled by tongue placement in the mouth.
A mug is a sturdy cup with a handle for drinking hot liquids.
A mug is normally ceramic, but can also be made of metal or glass.
A mug is thick and has a ring base for thermal insulation.
Mugs can be plain or have drawings imprinted or carved on them.
Murder is the unlawful killing of another human being with intent.
Murder a serious crime because it deprives the victim of their existence.
Killing in self-defense, accidentally or in war is not considered murder.
A convicted murderer is often given a life sentence or the death penalty.
Orange juice is a drink made from the liquid in orange pulp.
Orange juice has a sweet, acid taste and contains a lot of vitamin C.
Freshly squeezed orange juice often contains pulp as well.
Orange juice is often drunk at breakfast from a glass.
A parrot is a bird that lives in warm and tropical regions.
Parrots have brightly-colored feathers and a sharp, curved beak.
Parrots can imitate the human voice if they hear it repeatedly.
The appearance and abilities of parrots makes them popular pets.
A peach is an orange-yellow fruit with a characteristic smell.
The skin of a peach is thin and covered in small, fine hairs.
Peaches have a large, red-brown stone inside which contains the seed.
Peaches are sweet and delicate, and must be harvested after ripening.
The piano is a popular musical instrument played by means of a keyboard.
Pressing a piano key causes a felt-tipped hammer to hit a vibrating steel string.
The piano has an enormous note range, and pedals to change the sound quality.
The piano repertoire is large and famous pianists can give solo concerts.
Piranhas are small, ferocious fish that live in South American rivers.
Piranhas live and attack in schools and are most active during the day.
Piranhas have very sharp teeth and are opportunistic carnivores.
Piranhas eat fish, insects, lizards, mammals and carrion.
The raspberry is a fruit that grows in forest clearings or fields.
A single raspberry consists of many small fruits joined together.
Raspberries are eaten by themselves or cooked with sugar into jam.
Leaves of the raspberry are used fresh or dried in herbal teas.
A raven is a large black bird that thrives in many climates.
Ravens feed on carrion, insects, berries or small animals. 
Ravens have large brains and are capable of problem solving.
In folklore ravens are birds of ill-omen and also tricksters. 
A refrigerator is a cooling device used to contain and preserve food.
Some refrigerators can have a small compartment at freezing temperature.
A refrigerator can have shelves and small compartments for different types of food.
A refrigerator is generally white and people often put magnets on its surface.
A rifle is a firearm that rests on the shoulder and has a barrel with twisting grooves.
The grooves make the bullets spin around the rifle axis as they fly through the air.
Rifles are used in hunting and shooting sports, sometimes with scopes.
Assault rifles can fire in bursts and are the standard infantry weapon.
Salmon is a fish that migrates from fresh water to the ocean and back to spawn.
Salmon flesh is orange or red and has high protein content and a nice taste.
Salmon can be eaten raw in sushi or cooked by grilling, poaching or in other ways.
Salmon is the most common farmed fish, though it can also be caught in the wild.
A saw is a tool that uses a hard blade or abrasive wire to cut hard materials.
The small sharp points along the cutting side of the saw are called the teeth.
Saws can be worked by hand, or powered by an electric motor or gas engine.
Saws are used extensively in forestry, construction, carpentry and medicine.
A scientist studies and produces new knowledge about the physical world.
A scientist creates hypotheses and does experiments to test them.
Physics, chemistry and biology are classic examples of sciences.
Scientists publish their research in journals and conferences.
Scissors are a two-bladed instrument used for cutting.
Scissor blades are usually metallic, with plastic or metal handles.
Depending on the size and format, scissors can cut paper, hair or fabric.
Shears are large scissors used for cutting shrubs or pieces of metal.
A screwdriver is a tool for inserting and tightening screws into something.
Screwdrivers can also be used to remove screws after they are inserted.
The screwdriver tip applies the torque from rotating the handle.
The two major types of screwdriver are Phillips and flathead.
A shark is a large fish with a cartilage skeleton.
Sharks have streamlined bodies, with a large dorsal fin.
Most sharks predate on fish and mammals, with powerful jaws.
Sharks have very keen senses and can detect electrical fields.
A ship is a large vehicle that floats and travels on water.
A ship can be powered in the ocean by sails, steam, or diesel engines.
Ships are used to fish in the ocean and to transport cargo containers.
Cruise ships are floating hotels that take people between cities.
A shoe is clothing for the foot, with a sole, an outsole and a heel.
Shoes are usually made of leather, canvas, rubber or plastic.
Women's shoes often have high heels and come in many styles and colors.
A sneaker is a shoe for sports and athletic activity.
A soldier is a member of the national armed forces who fights on land.
A soldier in the militia must wear a uniform, usually camouflage.
In a volunteer army, a soldier is paid for his or her work.
A soldier fights using weapons such as rifles and grenades.
Spears are weapons that consist of a pole and sharpened head at one end.
Spears were the most common personal weapon before the advent of firearms.
Spears were used for stabbing or throwing when fighting in war.
Some native people still use the spear for hunting and fishing.
Spiders are insects with eight legs that make silk.
Spiders build webs with silk and use them to catch insects.
Spiders use venomous fangs to paralyse their stuck prey.
Spiders can be as small as a coin or as big as a bird.
Swamps are low, spongy land subject to frequent inundation.
A swamp is covered with shallow water, mud and vegetation.
Swamps are nesting and breeding grounds for birds and reptiles.
Farmers often drain swamps to produce fertile arable land. 
A sweater is a heavy garment worn on the torso for warmth.
Sweaters are often knitted from wool but cotton is also common.
A sweater that opens down the front is called a cardigan.
Sweaters differ in cut, collar and sleeve shape, as well as decoration.
A table is a piece of furniture with a flat surface and legs.
There are usually chairs around a table for people to sit.
People set cutlery, plates and food on a table to eat a meal together.
Tables are also used as surfaces to work or write on.
A television is an appliance with a screen that displays moving images.
Televisions are mostly used for watching programs or films.
Televisions are used to play videogames when connected to a game console.
Television content can be broadcast or received via cable or internet.
Theft is the taking of person's property without their consent.
Thieves steal to own something or to sell it to receivers.
Theft is a crime and can be punishable with jail or fines.
Industrial espionage is theft of ideas and intellectual property.
A toaster is a kitchen appliance for toasting bread using heating elements.
Pop-up toasters toast the bread placed in a slot and eject it once done.
Toaster ovens have a door on the side, a tray within and temperature control.
Toaster ovens allow bread to be cooked with toppings like garlic or cheese.
The tomato is a shiny and smooth red fruit, with a savory taste.
A tomato softens and changes color from green to red as it gets more ripe.
Tomatos can be used to make salads, soup or ketchup, as well as sauce.
There are many varieties of tomato, with different sizes and tastes.
A train is a connected series of cars that moves between stations on a track.
The train is pulled by a locomotive, powered by diesel or electricity.
A freight train transports containers of goods or fuel over long distances.
Commuter trains transport people between suburbs and stations inside a city.
A train station is a place where passengers get on or off a train.
Train stations have counters or machines for purchasing tickets.
There are waiting rooms and places to eat in a train station.
Passengers or cargo enter trains from a train station platform next to the line.
A tropical cyclone is a storm formed over warm tropical sea.
Cyclones can produce very powerful winds and torrential rain.
Tropical cyclone can also cause high waves and coastal flooding.
A tropical cyclone can move inland and seriously damage property.
The violin is an instrument with four strings that is played with a bow.
Violin is the smallest and highest pitched instrument in its family.
A violinist holds the instrument between the chin and the collarbone.
Different notes are made by fingering the violin neck with one hand while bowing.
Vultures are scavenging birds, feeding mostly on the carcasses of dead animals.
Many vultures have a bald head without feathers for losing heat.
Vultures use their large wings to soar for miles without flapping.
Vultures seldom attack healthy animals, but may kill the wounded or sick.
A wall is a solid structure that defines and sometimes protects an area.
Walls delineate a building, support the roof, and divide the space into rooms.
Walls are usually made of stone, brick, or cement, as well as drywall.
Retaining walls provide a barrier to movement of earth, stone or water.
Water is the most common liquid on Earth, covering 70% of its area.
Plants, animals and people must drink water in order to live.
Water freezes at a low temperature and becomes solid ice.
Rain is water that falls from clouds in the sky, which are condensed vapor.
A whale is a very large mammal that lives in the ocean.
Whales breathe through blowholes on their heads when surfacing.
The blubber in a whale serves as an energy reservoir and as insulation.
Whales have been hunted for meat, whale oil and ambergris.
A window is a transparent opening in a wall to let light through.
A typical window is made of sheets of glass held in place by frames.
When open, a window will also let air and sound through.
Some windows have multiple panes to increase insulation inside.
A woman is a female human adult.
A woman is stereotypically seen as a caregiver.
A woman can become pregnant and bear children.
A woman has different reproductive organs than a man.
